[Previous](why-use-vector-search-instead-other-vector-databases.md)
[Next](get-started-node.md) JavaScript must be enabled to correctly display
this content

  1. [Oracle AI Vector Search User's Guide](index.md)
  2. [Overview](overview-node.md)
  3. Oracle AI Vector Search Workflow

## Oracle AI Vector Search Workflow

A typical Oracle AI Vector Search workflow follows the included primary steps.

This is illustrated in the following diagram:

Figure 2-2 Oracle AI Vector Search Use Case Flowchart

  

![Description of Figure 2-2
follows](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/vecse/img/ai_vector_workflow_ga_v2.png)  
[Description of "Figure 2-2 Oracle AI Vector Search Use Case
Flowchart"](img_text/ai_vector_workflow_ga_v2.md)

  

To understand the diagram, consider this high level workflow description.
Vector embeddings are generated by passing unstructured data through an
embedding model. Vector embeddings can then be stored alongside business data
in relational tables and vector indexes can optionally be created. Once you
have the vector representations of your unstructured data stored in your
database table(s), a sample of unstructured data can be passed through the
embedding model to create a query vector. With the query vector, you can
perform similarity searches against the vectors that are already stored in the
database, in combination with relational queries if desired. To form a
complete Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) pipeline, it is also possible to
make a call to a generative Large Language Model (LLM) as part of the query
step.

Primary workflow steps:

  1. Generate Vector Embeddings from Your Unstructured Data

You can perform this step either outside or within Oracle Database. For more
information, see [Generate Vector Embeddings](generate-vector-embeddings-
node.md#GUID-A788574C-F88D-4E5E-B220-A40FA8CBB174 "Oracle AI Vector Search
offers Vector Utilities \(SQL and PL/SQL tools\) to automatically generate
vector embeddings from your unstructured data, either within or outside Oracle
Database.").

  2. Store Vector Embeddings, Unstructured Data, and Relational Business Data in Oracle Database

You store the resulting vector embeddings and associated unstructured data
with your relational business data in Oracle Database. For more information,
see [Store Vector Embeddings](store-vector-embeddings.md#GUID-
DF5E5492-2E9E-4C38-838D-56567BEC17C1 "You store the resulting vector
embeddings and associated unstructured data with your relational business data
in Oracle Database.").

  3. Create Vector Indexes

You may want to create vector indexes on your vector embeddings. This is
beneficial for running similarity searches over huge vector spaces. For more
information, see [Create Vector Indexes](create-vector-
indexes.md#GUID-8AF956F3-D951-4968-9B79-A6E180E87456 "You may want to create
vector indexes on your vector embeddings and use these indexes for running
similarity searches over huge vector spaces.").

  4. Query Data with Similarity Searches

You can then use Oracle AI Vector Search native SQL operations to combine
similarity with relational searches to retrieve relevant data. For more
information, see [Query Data with Similarity Searches](query-data-similarity-
and-hybrid-searches.md#GUID-1085EF0C-D1CA-423F-A6F2-54A9E76BAAA5 "Use Oracle
AI Vector Search native SQL operations from your development environment to
combine similarity with relational searches.").

  5. Generate a Prompt and Send it to an LLM for a Full RAG Inference

You can use the similarity search results to generate a prompt and send it to
your generative LLM of choice for a complete RAG pipeline. For more
information, see [Work with LLM-Powered APIs and Retrieval Augmentation
Generation](work-llm-powered-apis-and-retrieval-augmentation-generation-
node.md#GUID-AF82CA2B-5B40-4B05-AD1E-E990A4C1BF86 "You can use Vector
Utility PL/SQL APIs for prompting Large Language Models \(LLMs\) with textual
prompts, using LLM-powered chat interfaces. You can also communicate with LLMs
through the implementation of Retrieval Augmentation Generation \(RAG\), which
helps to generate more accurate and informative responses.").

**Parent topic:** [Overview](overview-node.md "Oracle AI Vector Search
stores and indexes vector embeddings for fast retrieval and similarity
search.")


[← Previous](why-use-vector-search-instead-other-vector-databases.md)

[Next →](get-started-node.md)
